Deprecation of Git Authentication using password (#1393)
huggingface/blog: password-git-deprecation.md

---
title: Deprecation of Git Authentication using password
thumbnail: TODO
authors:
- user: Sylvestre

> - user: TODO

Author: ```suggestion
- user: julien-c
```

> - user: julien-c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- user: pierric
- user: sbrandeis
```

would be better fits than i =)

Reviewer 2: do you mean you're declining any responsibility in case of mishaps? :)

---

# Hugging Face Hub: Important Git Authentication Changes

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> As part of our commitment to improving the security of our services, we are making changes to the way you authenticate with the Hugging Face Hub Git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we are committed to improving the security of our services, we are making changes to the way you authenticate with the Hugging Face Hub Git.
```

> Because we are committed to improving the security of our services, we are making changes to the way you authenticate with the Hugging Face Hub Git.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because we are committed to improving the security of our services, we are making changes to the way you authenticate when interacting with the Hugging Face Hub through Git.
```
a bit clearer, no?

Author: mmh yes :)

> Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept account passwords for authenticated Git operations. Instead, we recommend using most secure authentication, such as personal access tokens or SSH keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept password as a way to authenticate your command-line Git operations. Instead, we recommend using most secure authentication, such replacing password with a personal access token, or using a SSH key.
```

> Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept password as a way to authenticate your command-line Git operations. Instead, we recommend using most secure authentication, such replacing password with a personal access token, or using a SSH key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept password as a way to authenticate your command-line Git operations. Instead, we recommend using more secure authentication methods, such as replacing the password with a personal access token, or using a SSH key.
```

> Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept password as a way to authenticate your command-line Git operations. Instead, we recommend using more secure authentication methods, such as replacing the password with a personal access token, or using a SSH key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept passwords as a way to authenticate your command-line Git operations. Instead, we recommend using more secure authentication methods, such as replacing the password with a personal access token or using an SSH key.
```

> Starting from **October 1st, 2023**, we will no longer accept passwords as a way to authenticate your command-line Git operations. Instead, we recommend using more secure authentication methods, such as replacing the password with a personal access token or using an SSH key.

Reviewer 4: Is there any doc/resource out there that explains why this is safer than passwords? Would be good to give some context

Author: I removed this part because it was too much see https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/1393/commits/4a692cf6794ffa4d166d9f043ae00bda0aa483ad for advantages

Reviewer 4: I think having one sentence explaining why it's safer could help clarify things up

## Background

> In recent months, we have implemented various security enhancements, including sign-in alerts and support for SSH keys. However, users have still been able to authenticate Git operations using their username and password. To further improve security, we are now transitioning to token-based or SSH key authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In recent months, we have implemented various security enhancements, including sign-in alerts and support for SSH keys in git. However, users have still been able to authenticate Git operations using their username and password. To further improve security, we are now transitioning to token-based or SSH key authentication.
```

> In recent months, we have implemented various security enhancements, including sign-in alerts and support for SSH keys in git. However, users have still been able to authenticate Git operations using their username and password. To further improve security, we are now transitioning to token-based or SSH key authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In recent months, we have implemented various security enhancements, including sign-in alerts and support for SSH keys in Git. However, users have still been able to authenticate Git operations using their username and password. To further improve security, we are now transitioning to token-based or SSH key authentication.
```
let's be consistent, one way or another :)

## Action Required Today

> If you currently use a password to authenticate against the Git repositories of our models, datasets, or Spaces, please switch to using a personal access token or SSH keys before **October 1st, 2023**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you currently use your HF account password to authenticate with Git, please switch to using a personal access token or SSH keys before **October 1st, 2023**.
```

### Switching to personal access token

> You will need to generate an access token for your account, you can follow https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens#user-access-tokens to generate one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to generate an access token for your account; you can follow https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens#user-access-tokens to generate one.
```

> After generating your access token, you can update your git repository using the following commands:

Author: ```suggestion
After generating your access token, you can update your Git repository using the following commands:
```

```bash
$: git remote set-url origin https://<token>@huggingface.co/<user_name>/<repo_name>
$: git pull https://<token>@huggingface.co/<user_name>/<repo_name>.git
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or if you clone a new repo, you can just input a token in place of a password when your Git credential manager asks you for your authentication credentials.
```

> $: git pull https://<token>@huggingface.co/<user_name>/<repo_name>.git

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't `git pull origin` work here after the previous step?

> $: git remote set-url origin https://<token>@huggingface.co/<user_name>/<repo_name>
> $: git pull https://<token>@huggingface.co/<user_name>/<repo_name>.git

Author: ```suggestion
$: git remote set-url origin https://<user_name>:<token>@huggingface.co/<user_name>/<repo_name>
$: git pull origin
```

### Switching to SSH keys

Follow our guide to generate a SSH key and add it to your account, https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-git-ssh

> Then I'll be able to update your git repository using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you'll be able to update your git repository using:
```

> or if you clone a new repo, you can just input a token in place of a password when your Git credential manager asks you for your authentication credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or if you clone a new repo, you can just input a token in place of your password when your Git credential manager asks you for your authentication credentials.
```

> Follow our guide to generate a SSH key and add it to your account, https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-git-ssh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow our guide to generate an SSH key and add it to your account: https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-git-ssh
```

> Then you'll be able to update your git repository using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you'll be able to update your Git repository using:
```

```bash
$: git remote set-url origin git@hf.co:<user_name>/<repo_name>
```

## Timeline

Here's what you can expect in the coming weeks:

- Today: Users relying on passwords for Git authentication may receive emails urging them to update their authentication method.
- October 1st: Personal access tokens or SSH keys will be mandatory for all Git operations.

> For more details, reach out to HF Support to address any questions or concerns.

Reviewer 3: Is there a link or email we can use here?

> For more details, reach out to HF Support to address any questions or concerns.

Author: ```suggestion
For more details, reach out to HF Support to address any questions or concerns at website@huggingface.co
```
